okay cool hey everyone how's everyone
feeling we got some energy alright
awesome that that lunch is digested and
you're ready to learn okay so I am
Quincy and I'm going to talk about how
to write technical blog posts that
people will actually read that that
actually read part is important so you
may be wondering why is this developer
talking about writing well I worked as a
journalist for about three years after
college and I would say that technical
blogging was absolutely critical to
people actually realizing that freako
camp existed and to our early community
growth we're a small nonprofit we don't
have like a lot of resources for
advertising or for public relations so
we turn to trying to write articles
worth reading so I've been writing very
actively on both medium and on Quora
and I also edit free code camps medium
publication which publishes a whole lot
of articles on development design and
data science so my goal is for all of
you to walk out of here with both the
confidence and the tools that you need
to be able to write technical articles
that people will sit down and actually
invest the time in reading so there are
really three elements to this first you
need substance second you need to
package that substance for consumption
and third you need to go out and
publicize it so before we get into that
though I want to see why people are
blogging I saw a lot of hands go up
earlier for people who are blogging I'm
just gonna go up right now who is
blogging because they want to impress
future employers ok quite a few all
right who wants to apply recently
learned knowledge one of the best ways
to reinforce your own learning is to
turn around and teach it to somebody
else and it
technical blog post is an excellent way
to do that all right and who just wants
to share their insights with other
developers and kind of pay it forward
quite a few of you and maybe nobody
always they're here because this is a
little immodest but who is interested in
becoming a thought leader in a specific
domain all right yeah you want to so you
want to get on the conference circuit
you want to get on podcast like code
newbie and you want to raise awareness
of your area of expertise great it does
not matter like regardless of your
reason it does not matter really the
goal should be to just get people to
read your articles if you set out to
achieve that one single goal it will
help you with all four of those
objectives let's start with substance
you need to write something that matters
and I will tell you that people quickly
they have all these kind of rules of
thumb about blogging like oh it should
be 600 words and you know just quickly
get it out there and and blog every
single day I don't buy any of that stuff
I really think that it's all about
substance when you have something to say
that's when you open your mouth and you
say it and you can really hone in and
take that substance and turn it into a
whole lot of blog posts this is a guy
named Peter Paul Kosh he is the author
of the popular quirks mode blog and
quirks mode is really awesome because
it's focused just on the quirks between
different browsers and different
versions of browsers so he's he totally
geeked out on the difference between how
JavaScript is processed by Internet
Explorer 10 and mobile safari and opera
and his blog will show you all the
different intricacies of those for when
you're trying to develop cross browser
applications and those considerations so
what did he do he did his homework he
learned a whole lot about this one
subject and he went really deep on it
then he turned around and figured out
ways that he could write about it in
novel ways and that's what you should do
a lot of people may lament that ah
everything's
it's all been done every flavor of
breakfast cereal has been tried reality
is there are always new ways new
permutations that you can toggle and
switch around to make new original spins
on old topics a lot of blog posts are
written either from a hello world
absolute beginner perspective and then a
lot of them are written from I've been
coding for 10 years
there aren't enough articles that are
kind of in the middle for example so
experience levels one dimension of which
you can play around then there are a lot
of opportunities for taking something
that's been written in a different
language and blogging about how to do it
in another language or introducing humor
right humor makes your blog post
palatable so use it liberally and you
can even write joke posts that are
basically parroting something but
teaching at the same time so here's the
quick case study want everybody to meet
amber she's a seattle-based marine
biologist by training she got a master's
degree in marine biology and she worked
at Disney surveying the animals and
doing science related to the animals
that the Disney had and it's parks and
unfortunately rain biology is a field
that a lot of people want to get into
people love animals it's very
competitive
around the holiday season she found
herself with her contract not renewed to
cheer herself up she was really pumped
she's like all right I'm gonna go see
the new Star Wars movie did anybody see
the new Star Wars movie rogue one okay
awesome
so she was really excited because like
the first time it looked like a Star
Wars movie where the protagonist was
female but when she walked out of the
theater she had a weird sense that maybe
the protagonist wasn't the female
character and sure enough she did the
math and she counted up all the words
and she found that the main character
actually didn't didn't speak as many
lines as some of the other characters
and she also noticed that there were far
fewer female characters in that movie
than there were male characters and she
was like well this seemed like it was
marketed as a movie you know to women to
try to get more women in the Star Wars
so she looked at all the other
blockbuster movies like the top 10
grossing movies of 2016
she built a bunch of data visualizations
she wrote scripts to dive through and
count all the dialogue and assign the
gender to the different characters and
she built this beautiful series of data
visualizations and so she had the
substance she just needed to sit down
and write about it and that's what she
did I coached her through it and we
wrote a medium publication and her
article was huge it got picked up by
Mashable it got picked up by IGN a whole
lot of International Press and it raised
awareness of this issue so she was able
to use her scientific skills from being
a marine biologist kind of poured it
over to doing data visualization the
data science and as a result a whole lot
of employers and prospective freelancing
contracts came her way from this article
so there's just one blog post right you
only need to write one good blog post if
it has good substance so it's a lot of
hard work expect to invest a lot of time
and energy good blog posts don't come
easily not a good technical blog post
the second lesson I want you to all walk
away from is that packaging is important
the way you take your substance the way
you package it and present it to the
reader is very important this is the
most expensive vodka in the world I'm
not a vodka connoisseur or anything but
when I saw these bottles I was
immediately sucked in I wanted to learn
more about it right it's packaging well
what's the packaging on a blog post you
got your headline you've got your lead
image you have the formatting of the
text in the subheads and the pull quotes
and then you've got the platform that
you publish it in all of those things
are considerations that you should keep
in mind when it comes to packaging your
technical blog post I want to talk about
headlines specifically because I want to
point out that that is all that about 95
percent of people are going to read
scrolling through their their Twitter
feed while they're sitting on the toilet
or while they're holding the handle on a
bus and they're like do I want to read
this do I want to read this they read
your headline and it's up to your
headline to entice them to read the rest
of your article so has anybody heard the
old adage by Abe Lincoln about chopping
down trees so if I had eight hours to
write a technical blog post I'd spend
the first six sharpening the headline
it's true the headline really is empires
have been built on the backs of
headlines has anybody heard of BuzzFeed
you know and there's a science to it
there's a lot you can you can read up on
and you can a/b test your headlines you
can show them to your friends and just
try to figure out if people who click on
them it's really that important and then
the images humans are highly visual
creatures like our our visual cortex is
one of the biggest parts of our brain so
you've got a cater to that you've got to
show people images 86% of the top blog
posts have images in them and on average
they'll have at least one image every
350 words some of you may be like well I
can't afford a license really good
images well there's great news there are
so many generous photographers out there
who take their images and turn them to
Creative Commons or even Creative
Commons 0 which doesn't even require
attribution you can just splash their
photo up on there and this website
pixels you can search around and find
images that are public domain or
Creative Commons license
on a number of platforms so in terms of
formatting you need to be sure that you
don't get the Picard Ian wall of text
right people will bounce if they see
English comp 101 eight sentence
paragraphs remember reddit is only an
alt tab away so be sure that you show
them nice short paragraphs nice short
sentences it's not a matter of sounding
like like dumbing it down a lot
people look at it that way you can
express the exact same concepts in much
simpler words and you can use short
paragraphs and you can use white space
you can use subheads you can use pole
quotes all those things to break that up
the platform you publish it on makes a
big difference these are some of the
most popular ways that people publish
their technical blog posts so I'm a big
fan of medium it's ad free it's it's
user supported and it allows for easy
export of your content and it has a
built-in audience that's quite big they
get like 86 million visits a month and
then you can also post on blog on your
own private blog you can just use a
github pages blog and create get your
own domain and set it up that way too
there are trade-offs associated with all
these if you happen to have all a lot of
friends on LinkedIn or if you happen to
have all a lot of friends on Facebook
that might be a good place to publish to
notice a lot of celebrities have been
blogging on directly on Facebook so
here's another case study this is Oh
Hans he is a web developer in Lagos
Nigeria and he created this amazing
guide to flexbox the only problem was he
just created markdown files and folders
and pushed the github and left he left
it at that well you can go one step
further and actually write an article a
proper article and that's what I
convinced him to do so if you look at
this he has a nice headline that
accurately describes it's not a
clickbait headline what the article is
and then he's got some images he breaks
up the text with tweets and he's got
subheadings he's got short paragraphs
short sentences it's easy to read it's
it's a breezy read even though it's
about ten thousand words right like
you're gonna be reading for about an
hour and you're literally going to learn
all about flexbox and it may seem like
well who has time to sit down and read
an hour-long article about flexbox
people read 500 word blog posts right
well actually this is one of the most
popular technical articles ever
published it's been viewed more than a
hundred thousand times and as a result
he got an inquiry from book publishers
he even had some course
farmers reach out to him who wanted him
to create some workshops on flexbox so
yeah and he had substance he knew
flexbox very well he packaged it
properly and he profited lesson number
three publicized you may have heard the
expression in software development the
last 10% of the work takes 90 percent of
the time well let me tell you
publicizing your work is the last 10%
and it's gonna take 90% of your time
there is no build it and they'll come
you need to go out and tell people that
this exists and you need to actively
advocate for people to read your own
article one place you can put it is
hacker news I like to call it the hacker
news lottery because honestly there's
like AI could publish like the best
article I've ever written on Hacker News
and nobody would notice or some random
article that I published might show up
at the top one day because somebody
submitted it's like totally random and I
can tell you I see totally random things
on Hacker News you see totally random
things at the top of Reddit sometimes
but if you keep submitting every every
time you submit that's a lottery ticket
right and you you need to pay to win or
you need to play to win so you can also
target specific facebook groups there
are a lot of really big Facebook groups
some of them a local to your city maybe
your alumni group on Facebook from your
university or from your high school
share it with your friends that way
groups are a great way to spread it you
can also use LinkedIn people do use
LinkedIn groups it does send like email
digests people might see it and then I
would also say use other people's
audiences so if you publish on a medium
publication you're immediately kind of
hijacking the audience of that
publication for a moment to get their
attention if you publish it in Forbes or
TechCrunch or some of these other major
publications that actually submit kind
of aa PD reader posts and and you can
actually become a writer for Forbes or a
writer for TechCrunch and publish right
on there and that way you're borrowing
their credibility as well as their
audience
so just to summarize three things to
remember create technical blog posts
that are substantial package them for
consumption and publicize them like
crazy if you do that you'll write blog
posts that people will actually sit down
and read thank you very much
[Applause]